# Benjamin Lukens Code Practices CNM260 1/14/26

The devops culture and infrastructure as code practices: 

the term devops was introduced from '07 to '09, by Patrick Debois, Gene Kim, and John Willis.
Gives rise to push developers and operations together within teams. 
Devops culture is a set of practices that reduce the barriers between developers
and operations. 
DevOps culture is also the extension of agile processes (Scrum, XP, and so on) which 
makes it possible to reduce delivery times and already involves developers and business
teams. However, they are often hindered becuase of the non-inclusion of Ops in the 
same teams. The communication and this link between Dev and Ops allows a better 
follow up and end to end production deployments and more frequent deployments. 

Cloud providers have pre-made environments where you can deploy to and test, speeding up 
development process. Containerization makes it easier for developers to catch their errors.

To facilitate this collaboration and improve communication between Dev and Ops, there are 
several key elements in the process that must be put in place: 
More frequent application deployments with integration and continuous delivery,
The automation of unitary and integration tests, with a process focused on behavior-driven
design or test-driven design, 
the implementation of a means of collecting feedback from users, 
Monitoring applications and infrastructure. 

The culture of collaboration: Teams are no longer separated by silos specialization,
but are instead combined to make multidisciplinary teams that deliver added value to
the product as quickly as possible. 

The devops process is divided into several phases:
A.) Planning and prioritizing
B.) Development
C.) Continuous integration and delivery
D.) Continuous deployment
E.) Continuous monitoring

It is important to use tools that help both developers and operations. Tools such 
as slack and discord are great for communications between team members. 

Implementing CI/CD and continuous deployment:
CI: Continuous integration
CD: Continuous delivery
Continuous deployment 

(Slides have more notes on CI/CD/continuous deployment) 

A package manager: Constitutes the storage space of the packages generated by CI 
and recovered by CD. These managers must support feeds, versioning, and different types
of packages. There are several on the market, such as Nexus, and Azure Artifacts. 
A configuration manager: This allows you to manage configuration changes during CD, 
most CD tools include a configuration mechanism with a system of variables. 

Infrastructure as code (IaC): 
IaC is the process of writing the code of the provisioning and configuration steps of
infrastructure components, which helps automate its employment in a repeatable 
and consistent manner. 
The standardization of infrastructure configuration reduces the risk of errors. 
The code the describes the infrastructure is versioned and controlled in a source
code manager. 
The code is integrated into CI/CD pipelines.
Deployements that make infrastructure changes are faster and more efficient. 
Theres better management, control, and reduction in infrastructure costs. 

The languages and tools that are used to write the configuration of the infrastructure
can be different types, that is, scripting, declarative, and progrommatic. We 
will explore them in the following sections.

Scripting Types: 
Clients SDKs provided by the cloud provider, for example, you can script the provisioning 
of an Azure Infrastructure with the Azure CLIP or Azure PowerShell.

Programmatic types 
For a few years now, an observation has been made that the two types of IaC code,
which are of the scripting or declarative languages, are destined to be the operational team. 

